GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, are the
licensors of the GNU General Public License.  We wrote the license in
order to give you as much of our rights as possible.

  While we have not made this license perfect, we have tried to make it
as free as possible and to apply it to as many kinds of works as
possible.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  That is why you have
certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the license, or if
you modify a program and link it with the GNU General Public License.
  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains
that there is no warranty for this free software.  For both users' and
authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as
changed, so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to
authors of previous versions.

  Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run
modified versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer
can do so.  This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of
protecting users' freedom to change the software.  The systematic
pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of products for individuals to
use, which is precisely where it is most unacceptable.  Therefore, we
have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit the practice for those
products.  If such problems arise substantially in other domains, we
stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future versions
of the GPL, as needed.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States have passed, the U.S. Congress has been urged to pass, and some
national governments are in the process of passing, legislation to destroy
the right to write about mathematical and scientific principles.
If this fate befalls these laws, we may have to develop a way to
circumvent that, which conforms to business methods, if necessary, in
order to save the freedom of programmers and their users and
collaborators.  But whatever legal or political means are used to attack
programmers' right to distribute their code, we will not falter in
running programs.  Programs must be free and may be freely modified and
redistributed.  A program that is not free is a juggernaut, a weapon in
the hands of the programmer's enemy.

                  This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public License instead of this License.
